.\" Exarp MCP Server Manual Page
.\" Install: sudo cp exarp.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH EXARP 1 "November 2025" "Exarp 0.1.8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exarp \- MCP server for project management automation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exarp
.PP
.B python -m project_management_automation.server
.PP
.B pma
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Exarp
(formerly project-management-automation) is a Model Context Protocol (MCP)
server that provides AI assistants with tools for project health monitoring,
task management, documentation analysis, and security scanning.
.PP
The server exposes tools that can be called by MCP-compatible clients like
Cursor, Claude Desktop, or VS Code with MCP extensions.
.SH TOOLS
.SS "Project Health"
.TP
.B server_status
Returns server status, version, and available tools count.
.TP
.B project_scorecard
Generate comprehensive project health scorecard with metrics for codebase,
tests, tasks, documentation, security, and CI/CD.
.TP
.B project_overview
Generate one-page project summary in text, markdown, HTML, or slides format.
.SS "Documentation"
.TP
.B check_documentation_health
Analyze documentation structure, find broken links, validate formatting.
Returns health score 0-100.
.TP
.B add_external_tool_hints
Automatically add Context7 hints to documentation files.
.SS "Task Management"
.TP
.B analyze_todo2_alignment
Analyze task alignment with PROJECT_GOALS.md. Returns misaligned tasks
and average alignment score.
.TP
.B detect_duplicate_tasks
Find duplicate or similar tasks. Supports auto_fix mode.
.TP
.B consolidate_tags
Analyze and standardize Todo2 task tags.
.TP
.B task_hierarchy_analyzer
Recommend hierarchical task structures for complex components.
.TP
.B batch_approve_tasks
Batch approve tasks that don't need clarification.
.TP
.B sync_todo_tasks
Synchronize between shared TODO table and Todo2.
.SS "Security"
.TP
.B scan_dependency_security
Scan Python, Rust, and npm dependencies for vulnerabilities.
Returns vulnerability count by severity.
.SS "Automation"
.TP
.B run_daily_automation
Run routine daily maintenance tasks (docs health, alignment, duplicates).
.TP
.B run_nightly_task_automation
Execute background-capable tasks in parallel across agents.
.TP
.B sprint_automation
Comprehensive sprint automation with subtask extraction and analysis.
.TP
.B find_automation_opportunities
Discover new automation opportunities in the codebase.
.SS "CI/CD & Git"
.TP
.B validate_ci_cd_workflow
Validate GitHub Actions workflows and runner configurations.
.TP
.B setup_git_hooks
Configure git hooks for automatic tool execution.
.TP
.B setup_pattern_triggers
Setup file/git/task pattern-based automation triggers.
.TP
.B check_working_copy_health
Check git working copy status across agents.
.SS "Testing"
.TP
.B run_tests
Execute test suites with pytest, unittest, or ctest.
.TP
.B analyze_test_coverage
Generate coverage reports and identify gaps.
.SS "Other"
.TP
.B resolve_task_clarification
Resolve a single task's clarification question.
.TP
.B resolve_multiple_clarifications
Batch resolve task clarifications from JSON.
.TP
.B list_tasks_awaiting_clarification
List tasks in Review status awaiting decisions.
.TP
.B simplify_rules
Simplify Cursor rules based on automation capabilities.
.SH PROMPTS
Exarp provides MCP prompts for common workflows:
.TP
.B daily_checkin
Daily project health check workflow.
.TP
.B sprint_start
Sprint planning and task organization.
.TP
.B sprint_end
Sprint review and retrospective.
.TP
.B project_health
Comprehensive health assessment.
.TP
.B scorecard
Generate project scorecard.
.TP
.B project_overview
Generate one-page summary.
.TP
.B automation_setup
One-time automation configuration.
.SH RESOURCES
.TP
.B exarp://status
Current server status and health.
.TP
.B exarp://tools
List of available tools.
.TP
.B exarp://history
Recent automation run history.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.SS "MCP Client Configuration"
Add to your MCP client config (e.g., .cursor/mcp.json):
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "exarp": {
      "command": "/path/to/venv/bin/python",
      "args": ["-m", "project_management_automation.server"],
      "env": {
        "PYTHONPATH": "/path/to/project-management-automation"
      }
    }
  }
}
.fi
.RE
.SS "Environment Variables"
.TP
.B EXARP_PROJECT_ROOT
Override automatic project root detection.
.TP
.B EXARP_LOG_LEVEL
Logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR).
.TP
.B EXARP_WISDOM_SOURCE
Daily wisdom source (pistis_sophia, bofh, tao, stoic, bible, etc.).
.TP
.B EXARP_WISDOM_DISABLED
Set to 1 to disable daily wisdom in scorecards.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I pyproject.toml
Project configuration and metadata.
.TP
.I PROJECT_GOALS.md
Project goals for task alignment analysis.
.TP
.I .todo2/state.todo2.json
Todo2 task state file.
.TP
.I .cursor/mcp.json
MCP server configuration for Cursor.
.TP
.I .github/workflows/ci.yml
CI/CD workflow for GitHub Actions.
.TP
.I scripts/dependency_security_config.json
Security scanner configuration.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Server started successfully or tool completed.
.TP
.B 1
Error during startup or tool execution.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start the server directly:
.RS
.B python -m project_management_automation.server
.RE
.PP
Run a tool from command line:
.RS
.B python -m project_management_automation.tools.project_scorecard
.RE
.PP
Generate HTML overview:
.RS
.B python -m project_management_automation.tools.project_overview \\
.B "    output_format=html output_path=docs/OVERVIEW.html
.RE
.PP
Run daily automation:
.RS
.B python -m project_management_automation.scripts.automate_daily
.RE
.PP
Scan for security vulnerabilities:
.RS
.B python -m project_management_automation.tools.dependency_security \\
.B "    languages='["python"]'
.RE
.SH INSTALLATION
.PP
From PyPI (when published):
.RS
.B pip install project-management-automation-mcp
.RE
.PP
From source:
.RS
.nf
git clone https://github.com/davidl71/project-management-automation
cd project-management-automation
pip install -e .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Verify installation:
.RS
.B exarp --version
.RE
.SH ARCHITECTURE
.PP
Exarp is built on FastMCP and follows the Model Context Protocol specification.
.PP
.nf
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    MCP CLIENT                           │
│            (Cursor, Claude, VS Code)                    │
└─────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┘
                      │ MCP Protocol (JSON-RPC)
┌─────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────┐
│                  EXARP SERVER                           │
│  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐   │
│  │  Tools  │  │ Prompts │  │Resources│  │ Wisdom  │   │
│  └────┬────┘  └────┬────┘  └────┬────┘  └────┬────┘   │
│       └────────────┴────────────┴────────────┘        │
│                         │                              │
│  ┌──────────────────────▼──────────────────────────┐  │
│  │           Automation Scripts                     │  │
│  │  (docs_health, alignment, security, sprint)     │  │
│  └──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┘
                          │
┌─────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────┐
│                   PROJECT FILES                         │
│   .todo2/  pyproject.toml  PROJECT_GOALS.md  docs/     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exarp-zsh (1),
.BR python (1),
.BR git (1)
.PP
MCP Specification: https://modelcontextprotocol.io
.PP
FastMCP: https://gofastmcp.com
.PP
Project: https://github.com/davidl71/project-management-automation
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/davidl71/project-management-automation/issues
.SH AUTHOR
David Lowes
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. Copyright (c) 2025.

